So, let's try to really understand
the difference between Cognito User Pools and Identity Pool.
But by now, you should have a good idea.
So, Cognito User Pools is used for authentication
which is identity verification.
So it's going to be a database of users
for your web and your mobile applications.
And then you have federation for logins,
so you can have social logins
such as Google, Facebook, Amazon, or OIDC,
or corporate logins using SAML.
But the idea is that Cognito User Pools
will be your database of users.
You can even customize the hosted UI for authentication,
include your logo, and you have integration with Lambda
during the authentication flow
for pre-, for post, and so on.
You can also adapt the sign-in experience
to different risk levels, for example,
with adaptive authentication.
So that MFA is used in due time.
Now for Cognito Identity Pools,
this is for authorization or access control.
And this is access control from within AWS.
So, for just the comparison,
if you have a mobile application
and you just wanna have a database of users,
you're good to go with Cognito User Pools.
But if you want these users to be able
to access your AWS environment, for example
a DynamoDB database or an S3 bucket,
then you need to give them authorization,
and this is achieved by using Cognito Identity Pools.
So, here you will obtain temporary credentials for users
and then the login to get these credentials,
the way to exchange a token for these credentials
can be done, again, by social, OIDC, SAML,
which can be confusing but also Cognito User Pools.
And so, the idea is that wherever your user is identified
then they can exchange this token for authorization.
So you can use Cognito Identity Pool
with Cognito User Pool,
but you can also use Cognito Identity Pool on its own.
The benefits also of using Cognito Identity Pools
is that the users can be unauthenticated,
they can be guests.
And then, once you have them set up in Identity Pool,
the users are going to be mapped
to specific IAM roles and policies,
and you can leverage policy variables,
which gives them access to, for example, a DynamoDB table
or an S3 Buckets.
So when you use Cognito User Pools
with Cognito Identity Pools,
you get authentication on the first hand
and authorization on the second hand.
And this is what I'm trying to represent in this diagram.
So, let's say you have a web and mobile application,
and you want to access your private S3 Bucket
and DynamoDB Table with a per user type of security.
So first, we'll do best practices.
We'll do a login and get token from Cognito User Pools.
So you'll have your internal database of users
and you can federate the login using SAML, OpenID Connect,
Google, or Facebook.
Then the user will have its identity will be verified.
What we can do is that we can exchange then this token
of your users for temporary AWS credentials.
And the way it works out
we can integrate Cognito Identity Pool directly
with Cognito User Pools.
Then we're going to get temporary credentials thanks to STS.
And then the web and mobile applications
can then issue API calls directly into AWS
and we'll have made sure from Cognito Identity Pool
that the IAM policy attached to these temporary credentials
allow them to perform exactly the action they need.
Okay, so by now you should really be able
to understand the differences
between user pools and identity pools.
I hope you liked it and I will see you in the next lecture.